[ENH] Create a glossary for unclear terms (#138)
neurobagel/documentation: docs/glossary.md

> ### Data dictionary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This glossary compiles some key terms used in the Neurobagel documentation and defines them in the context of the Neurobagel ecosystem.

### Data dictionary
```

:   A JSON file that describes the information contained in columns from a tabular data file, 
    along with the meaning and properties (format of numerical data, unique “levels” 
    of categorical data, etc.) of values in each column. In the context of Neurobagel, 
    the meanings of columns and column values are encoded using terms from standardised vocabularies.

### Data model

> **Used interchangeably with**: data schema

Reviewer: 🍒 : I think visually, italics for "Used interchangeably with:" (e.g., _Used interchangeably with_: data schema) looks a little cleaner, since some of the definitions include bolded text as well.

This is subjective though, so will leave the style decision up to you :)

> :   A data model is a structure that has been designed with the 
>     purpose to represent a specific kind of information. 
>     It is made up of generic types or classes that are relevant

Reviewer: 🍒:
```suggestion
:   A structure that has been designed with the 
    purpose to represent a specific kind of information. 
    A data model is made up of generic types or classes that are relevant
```

>     to the data model designers (for example "Research Participant"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    to the data model designers (for Neurobagel, examples include "Research Participant"
```

    and "Neuroimaging Dataset"), the properties these types can

>     have (for example "Age in years" and "Dataset name"), and the 
>     relationships that can exist between them (for example "is Part of").

Reviewer: 🍒, just to shorten things:
```suggestion
    have (e.g., "Age in years", "Dataset name"), and the 
    relationships that can exist between them (e.g., "is part of").
```

    The goal of a data model is to give information a structure
    so that we can write programs that can consume the information.

>     The Neurobagel data model is designed to represent the kind
>     of information that is important to support the most relevant

Reviewer: 🍒 :
```suggestion
    The Neurobagel data model seeks to represent
    information important for supporting the most widely used
```
(or generalizable, maybe?)

    cohort definition queries, and thus models types, properties,
    and relationships that are important for this purpose.

>     It is not a static thing, and we constantly add new things to 
>     the data model as we support new use cases that rely on this
>     information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The data model is dynamic, and will be actively added to
    as we support new use cases that rely on different
    subject information.
```

### Controlled term
:   A unique identifier or code for a concept that is described in a controlled vocabulary.

    A controlled term has a 

>         - a clear definition

Reviewer: the formatting for these bullets and the below example looks a bit weird in the preview (it appears as a code block?)

I think outdenting this section should fix it.

        - a unique and persistent identifier

>         - that exists in a curated list of terms like a vocabulary, taxonomy or ontology

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - from a specific curated list of terms like a vocabulary, taxonomy or ontology
```

        An example is the controlled term for 
        ["Parkinson's disease" from the ICD-11 taxonomy](https://icd.who.int/browse11/l-m/en#/http://id.who.int/icd/entity/296066191)
        with the unique code `8A00.0`.

> ### Controlled vocabulary, taxonomy, ontology

Reviewer: I think we should move "taxonomy" and "ontology" to a _Used interchangeably with_ section rather than listing all in the title, or alternatively, move their definitions into an `Info`/similar admonition and focus on "Controlled term" here as the main term. 

Otherwise, I think having all three is a bit confusing for readers, as we use primarily use "controlled vocabulary" in our docs, but also sometimes use "ontology" interchangeably - they may think our different uses of the terms refer to different things.

:   A **controlled vocabulary** is a collection of controlled terms that
    are often all about one specific topic. The main benefit of a 
    controlled vocabulary is that it provides unambiguous terms with

>     clear definitions that people can agree to use to describe their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    clear definitions that people have agreed to use to describe their
```

    information - removing the need to align variable names and value
    formats between datasets and enabling interoperability. 

    For example, most websites use the [schema.org](https://schema.org/)
    vocabulary to describe things like 
    [products](https://schema.org/Product) to purchase, 
    [events](https://schema.org/Event) to book, 
    [recipes](https://schema.org/Recipe) to cook etc.
    in a consistent way that can be understood by 
    the search spiders of big search engines.

>     Creating a controlled vocabulary is a laborious task 

Reviewer: I think this could go into a Note / Info admonition, as it's not essential info for a user

    that involves deep subject matter expertise, often from many experts, 

>     and need to be maintained to remain relevant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    and needs to be maintained to remain relevant.
```

    You should therefore almost always **reuse** an existing vocabulary
    rather than creating your own. 

    A **taxonomy** is a more specific form of a controlled vocabulary 

>     that organizes terms into hierarchical relationships. For example
>     a [Recipe](https://schema.org/Recipe) in schema.org is a subtype of
>     a HowTo which itself is a subtype of a CreativeWork. This hierarchy 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    that organizes terms into hierarchical relationships. For example,
    a ["Recipe"](https://schema.org/Recipe) in schema.org is a subtype of
    a "HowTo" which itself is a subtype of a "CreativeWork". This hierarchy 
```
🍒, to keep quoting consistent in this paragraph

    let's you do things like search for "CreativeWork" and also find
    "Recipe", even if you have never made this link directly.

    An **ontology** is an even more specific form of a taxonomy 
    where terms can have very complex relationships with each other

>     that include logical constraints. In an Ontology you could for example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    that include logical constraints. In an ontology, you could for example
```

    express that for someone to be a "sister" to someone else, 
    both the subject and the object of the relationship have to be "human",
    only the subject of the relation has to be "female", and both have to 
    have at least one parent in common. These complex expressions are very
    labour intensive to create but can provide also very 
    rich ways of validating and even inferring information.

### Graph database
**Used interchangeably with**: knowledge graph store, graph store, graph

> :   Graph databases are a type of database such as relational databases.

Reviewer: 🍒 (I realized "such as" makes it sound like relational databases are a type of graph database)
```suggestion
:   A type of database, like relational databases.
```

    The main distinguishing feature of graph databases is that they 
    represent entities as nodes in a graph, 
    and relationships between entities as edges between these nodes.
    This data model makes it easy to easily add new information
    by drawing a new edge between two nodes.

    A single Neurobagel graph database can contain harmonised information about multiple datasets and their respective subjects. Each subject is represented by a node, and their harmonised phenotypic and imaging data characteristics are described using controlled terms connected to the subject node via a series of edges that individually encode the type of attribute described by the controlled term.

>     Neurobagel uses the RDF graph data model, see also https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_database.

Reviewer: Worth moving to an Info admonition?

### Annotation
:   In the context of Neurobagel, annotation refers to the process
    of describing tabular demographic, cognitive, and/or clinical (phenotypic) data for a dataset
    with terms from controlled vocabularies to create machine 
    understandable data dictionaries for the data. You can learn
    more about this process in our [documentation](annotation_tool.md).

### Aggregated results
:   If the owner of a Neurobagel node decides that query responses
    should not include information at the level of individual 
    participants, they can configure their node to only return
    aggregated results. In this mode, the node will aggregate
    all participants that match a query at the dataset level
    and only respond with counts of matching participants.

### Data owner

> :   A data owner for Neurobagel is a person or an institute
>     who is responsible in the data governance sense 
>     for one or many datasets. One data owner can have one or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   A person or an institute
    who is responsible in the data governance sense 
    for one or many datasets. In the context of Neurobagel, one data owner can have one or
```

    more Neurobagel nodes, but every Neurobagel node can only
    have one data owner who is responsible for all of the data
    stored inside the node.

### Federation API

> :   The Neurobagel federation API (also f-API in the documentation)
>     is a standalone service that allows query users to send a single
>     query and have it automatically send to many Neurobagel node APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Used interchangeably with_: f-API
:   A standalone service that allows query users to send a single
    query and have it automatically sent to many Neurobagel node APIs
```

    (n-API) without having to know where these node APIs are located.
    The f-API takes care of keeping an up to date list of available 
    n-APIs, federating queries, retrieving and combining results, 
    and returning them to the user.

>     The f-API is designed to very closely resemble the behaviour and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Designed to very closely resemble the behaviour and
```

    the endpoints of a n-API so that services can be built that are
    able to work either directly with a single n-API or with an f-API.

> ### Node API
> :   In Neurobagel we refer to a node as a locally deployed service
>     that holds information about data for one data owner who controls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Node API
_Used interchangeably with_: n-API
:   A Neurobagel "node" is a locally deployed service
    that holds information about data for one data owner who controls
```

    and manages the node. A node has two core components:

    - a graph backend to store the harmonised data for querying

>     - a RESTful **node API** (n-API) that exposes query endpoints for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - a RESTful **node API** that exposes query endpoints for
```

    users or programs to send queries and retrieve results

    One important purpose of the n-API is to act as a barrier

>     between the user and the graph backend so that the user cannot
>     execute arbitrary queries on the graph and that the data owner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    between the user and the graph backend so that the user cannot
    execute arbitrary queries on the graph, and the data owner
```

    can control how detailed the query responses should be.

### Tabular data
**Used interchangeably with**: phenotypic data

> :   In the context of Neurobagel, when we talk about tabular data
>     we refer to tabular text files (e.g., .tsv or .csv) that contain information about

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   Tabular text files (e.g., .tsv or .csv) that contain information about
```
